and if you're learning Chinese in a
university classroom setting you have a
limited scope for creativity in how you
choose to learn the language when you're
not in the classroom in your own time
you have to be creative in coming up
with ways to make practicing the
language interesting rewarding and
effective but ultimately the quizzes the
tests and the exams will be based on the
vocabulary list found in the index to
the textbook that the professor has
chosen in this series of YouTube videos
I am NOT going to present a critique of
the integrated Chinese language course
I'm going to provide an alternative to
that language course but this
alternative could be used as a
supplement to that language course
because I'm going to work with
fundamentally the same vocabulary list
the same list of words that you must
memorize if you're going to do well in a
university course that is based on that
presumes knowledge of the integrated
Chinese textbook series the first word
you're taught in this textbook is how
and you're taught to memorize that it
means good and then when the test comes
and the exam comes you should just learn
to write the word itself and give the
English definition as good I am not
entirely convinced that this is the most
interesting way to teach a language like
Chinese and I'm also not convinced that
it's the most efficient or effective way
to teach the language isn't it a bit
more interesting for you as a student
even if this is level one day one in
Chinese for you to have some awareness
if you have some little bit of warning
that the word how means much more than
the English word good in fact it's a
fascinating example of how the Chinese
take a single syllable in their language
and manage to get so much use out of it
so many different possible meanings of
it and look
you can't memorize it all there's no
doubt when the time comes to write your
exam or your test and they ask you what
is the meaning of the word how you're
gonna have to write how it means good
just like everyone else but as soon as
you start taking an interest in the real
language as it's used in the real world
even if you just go to Google and do a
google search you're gonna see sentences
like this one where how does not mean
good at all if you don't know any of the
vocabulary don't worry about it for now
the sentence reads Chingy will need to
show G Hama House Asia yes II think a
war neither showed you home ah ha
facially and C please give me your cell
phone number in order to contact you at
any time maybe that should be the first
sentence that everyone learns in Chinese
maybe that should be maybe we should
make that the new standard
isn't it interesting here you see how is
used to give the sense of in order to do
something you can think of this enemy
logically like it would be good if but
that's not the meaning here please give
me your cell phone number so that I can
contact you at any time in order to
contact you in a time just one more
example like this and again I understand
if you're a beginner there's a lot of
vocabulary here you don't know and
that's okay but just appreciate how much
you're missing out on if all you learn
is that how means good I want to live
with a local family in order to practice
the spoken language what sound cool
Holly Holly in C code you again look at
the words circled in red it doesn't say
in order to it says how although I said
that this series of videos will not be a
critique of the integrated Chinese
textbook once in a while I'm gonna make
the vocabulary more interesting by
contrasting what the textbook teaches
you to the way people speak Chinese in
real life so I've got to tell you I did
the course I got an A plus plus
I studied this textbook
for a level-one in a university and then
I got to China and nobody understood the
phrase me creasing level 1 chapter 1 you
are taught that the polite way to ask
someone's name is to say nee Gracie
maybe there's some Province in China
we're in the local dialect that makes
sense but a god I tell you everywhere
I've been every Chinese person I ever
spoke to did not understand that phrase
neither in spoken Chinese nor even in
written Chinese when it should be clear
there is a what what are you talking so
that's a remarkable example and it's in
the first page of the first chapter the
first lesson where this textbook is
really teaching you something that's
very misleading if not simply wrong now
how did Chinese people actually say that
they don't know your name well one
effective but not terribly polite way is
just to say Nihao
neasha che hello you are who Chinese
people do you say that that is a normal
people have said that to me I've said
that Chinese people nobody gets offended
but it's true it's not all that polite
if you really want to be polite you have
to join in the great East Asian custom
of carrying with you at all times a
business card
the normal say in English there a name
card and then you can say something like
Davichi well Mayo need them in pen you
can say this while you give them your
own name card you're saying them oh
pardon me I'm sorry I don't have your
name card so this is a polite way of
saying I don't know your name you're
giving them a name card that lets lets
that person know your name and of course
this is very polite in Chinese culture
it's also very effective because the
truth is just hearing the sound of
someone's name is not enough figuring
out how to spell it figure out the
correct Chinese characters may still be
a little bit of a challenge
if you don't exchange little pieces of
paper this is one of the many words
you're expected to memorize for unit 1
one of this level one textbook and
you're encouraged to just memorize it
with the meaning my name is Jeff yeah
you would be tested most likely by your
professor to check that you understand
that this normally refers to your first
name not to your family name the better
students in the classroom might look it
up in a dictionary you might look it up
using digital dictionary software and
might notice that it really has several
other unrelated meanings but you know if
you're working at a fast pace week to
week chapter chapter you probably don't
have time to even memorize those other
meanings some of you may feel
comfortable with the ambiguity of that
you may think well okay I'm just going
to learn this one meaning of the word
and then maybe it won't later trip me up
so much that there are six or seven
other meanings of the word in the
dictionary that I'm just going to ignore
for the time being I would advise
against that attitude learning a
language is like going to a tailor if
you stitch something up the wrong way
later you have to tear out all the
stitches and do it all over again
relearning something challenging bad
habits of mind and it's much more
difficult than getting it right the
first time so but you might have that
attitude well okay I'm gonna live with a
certain amount of fog in my appreciation
of the Chinese language well how would
you handle the two sentences were about
to look at right now they would be
utterly perplexing and paradoxical to
you when you encounter them in Chinese
and you will and furthermore I defy you
go ahead and check your dictionary I
think the use meaning and function of
Jiao that I'm about to explain to you it
will either not be mentioned in your
dictionary at all or it'll be mentioned
so briefly and so cryptically that you
couldn't possibly figure it out from the
dictionary alone here we go so this
opens with foo qincha this might seem
like very very advanced Chinese but this
is all pretty much level 1 vocabulary to
pay money
Fujin okay sure is one of the first
words you learn within the first couple
chapters
this is sha ho
right so at the time of paying money
food changsha with aussie yen Chen Bao
Chou giotto gay tolls Ola
food chain she was fighting tempo turns
out okay holla holla at the time of
paying that's the first three syllables
Fujin Jie I discovered wolf ass yen Chen
Bao so if you don't know Chen da no big
deal but it's a simple noun you can
guess cuz you probably know the word
Chen so Chen Bao is wallet or something
like that a wallet I think it could also
be a purse anything that contains money
like that I discovered that my wallet
had been stolen
what does the word gel mean in the
sentence if all you've learned is that
the word gel means hi my name is and
then it's followed by your first name
you would be utterly perplexed and
regard this as quite paradoxical and you
might want to reassure yourself by
saying oh well you know one that's a
really advanced usage only encounter at
once no no it's not this is standard
everyday spoken Chinese this is not
literary Chinese this is not reading the
ancient text of Confucius this is normal
basic Chinese you teach no here's a much
simpler sentence with a similar sort of
paradox in the meaning of the word Jiao
Tyga Fujiyama taught you I'm over
pronouncing the tones here Togo puja
that you without touching tiger his
brother now even if you had learned the
Supplemental meaning of Jiao meaning to
call out to cry out when a duck quacks
that's jowl when a cat makes a meowing
or purring sound I believe that's also
gel now I forget is it meowing or
purring one of them is Jo as a whole
bunch these different words different
meanings related to calling out
jail was also meant to call out an order
to a waiter a few things of that you
might read this and assume tyga his
brother did not tell him to go but know
the actual meaning here is his brother
did not allow him to go so there's a
whole category of meanings with gel that
are legally similar to the passive voice
in english they have to do with allowing
something to happen or in the case of
being robbed by a thief the happenstance
of something having being the case it
expresses something vaguely similar to
the passive voice in english but of
course technically by definition it is
not a passive voice construction in
terms of grammar and the science of
linguistics if i have two or three
people in the audience with PhDs in
linguistics they will be angrily banging
their four to six fists on the table
with rage that i would dare to refer to
this as a passive voice but let's just
look at two more examples really quickly
wouldja Dada what about look this is a
great example of a meaning of the word
jowl that you will not figure out from
your dictionary and you will not even be
able to figure out with Google Translate
not in the year 2020 maybe in the
distant future when the software
improves what's holla I by him was
beaten or I by him was punched and
Google Translate gets there's a hundred
percent wrong with I told him to hit so
the function of jaw here again
Phegley similar to a passive voice in
terms of how it structures the sentence
tells you the subject of the sentence so
on and so forth and then the very bottom
of the screen G ow wall didn't you air
okay bye my daughter gay Nam doula by my
daughter
it was lost what is the function of G au
in this
you can think of it as a passive voice
you can make up another explanation your
own mind but if you're not aware of this
I'm not saying you can memorize
everything I'm not saying you can master
everything in Lesson one of your level
one textbook but if you are not aware of
the full range of meanings of the word
jowl then when you encounter this your
dictionary won't be able to help you
Google Translate won't be able to help
you you'll be working on the false
assumption that you know the meaning of
the word jowl because your textbook told
you that all it means is hi my name is